MSC2689: Fix E2EE for guests (#2689)
matrix-org/matrix-doc: proposals/2689-fix-e2ee-for-guests.md

# MSC2689: Allow guests to operate in encrypted rooms

> MSC751 suggested to allow guests to use several endpoints in order to allow guests to use E2EE.

Reviewer: it was a PR to the spec, rather than an MSC:

```suggestion
[#751](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-doc/pull/751) granted guest users access to several endpoints in order to allow them to use E2EE.
```

I found that guests are able to join encrypted rooms and read messages from other members. But when the

> guest wants to send an event into the room the client receives an "guest access not allowed" error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
guest wants to send an event into the room the client receives a "guest access not allowed" error
```

> for the `/rooms/room_id/members` endpoint. I assume the client tries to read the list of room members

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the `/rooms/{roomId}/members` endpoint. I assume the client tries to read the list of room members
```

so that it matches how it's written in the spec

to prepare the encryption of the event for the present members. Tests with a patched Synapse showed that
allowing guests to use this endpoint results in a normal behaviour and enables guests to communicate in
encrypted rooms.

## Proposal

> Allow guests to use the `GET /_matrix/client/r0/rooms/<room_id>/members` endpoint to enable them to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allow guests to use the `GET /_matrix/client/r0/rooms/{roomId}/members` endpoint to enable them to
```
